>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so the last screen
that we are going to add is the UI for
a plant's details page.
So it will look like this.
So it will be when we tap on a plant,
it will open a new page
with the plant details,
and it will have a button
to water your plant and
I added a little button
to delete it as well.
So for this,
we are going to use dynamic routes.
So this is something that
we haven't done before.
So our routing in our app
currently looks like this.
So we have our index route.
This is the home tab.
Then we have our new route.
So this is the modal for
creating a new plant.
We have our profile page, so
this is the profile tab, and
we have our onboarding modal.
What we want to add is a new
route that looks like this, so
we want a slash plants and
we want a dynamic plant id, and
this will render the plant D details page.
>> Kadi Kraman: So how do we do this?
Currently, we have our tabs and our
homepage is rendered as an index fruit and
we want to convert this
index fruit into a stack and
in the intro course we did a similar
thing with the counter page where we
added a history screen where
we converted it into a stack.
So converting an index page into
a stack is a little bit different,
because we can't create
a folder called index.
That wouldn't work.
So we have to use another grouping root.
So in this tab folder, let's create
another folder and we call it Home.
Now let's move our index file into home.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
we'll add a little layout file here.
So it will be _layout.tsx so
this will be in home and
export default function layout,
and we'll render a stack,
and a stack.screen.
And Screen name is index.
I forgot to return this.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay,
so now when I reload.
I'm getting a warning saying that
there is no root named index.
That is from the layout
file in our tabs folder.
And that is because, indeed,
there is no screen called index.
We are moved it into home.
So we can rename this index into home, so
it points into our home grouping route.
[COUGH] So now in this home tab,
we are rendering a stack of
a single screen, and yeah,
you can actually see it because we have
this duplicate header issue again.
And again, this is quite common,
we want to hide one of the headers, and
in this case, we actually want
to hide the parent header.
And the reason being is that the details
page is going to be inside this,
so where this index screen is,
this will be the header.
That will be shared by all the screens
that are in this home stack.
So if we were to hide this index header,
then we would always see the home header,
even if we were in the plant details page.
So fortunately,
there will be a few more steps to do that.
But let's go to the layout file where
we have our header right and copy this.
And then go to the layout file inside and
go to options and add it here.
So we'll need to update all the imports.
So we need link pressable and design.
>> Kadi Kraman: So this one,
it is referred to do named imports.
It's better for bundling.
So theme, there we go.
Okay, so this is inside.
Actually, we don't need a margin
that's this big anymore.
So maybe change it to.
Actually, do we need a margin?
Let's try it.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so this actually
looks good without the margin as well.
Okay, and
then let's give it a name as well.
So let's do title of home.
Okay, so we recreated our home header.
Now we can hide it from
the tabs layout file.
So, from here, home,
we can do header shown false.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so one thing to draw
your attention to, recall when I said
that the main entry point to your expert
router app is gonna be an index file.
It's gonna be the route, level,
index file, there's slash route.
And we don't have an index file here.
We don't even have
an index file in our tabs.
Our index file is inside here, home.
So if I copy the file path,
copy relative path.
So this is the relative
path of our index file.
But recall that app, this is just our
route, it's not included in the href.
All of the grouping routes aren't
included, they are just for grouping.
And index is just the slash root.
So this still translates to the slash
root and that is the main entry point.
That's why it is still the main
entry point for our app.
>> Kadi Kraman: And to do a dynamic route,
we can use angle braces.
So what we wanted to do is, so we wanted
to have a plant slash [INAUDIBLE] so
the only way to add this
segment is to add a folder.
So let's add a folder in home.
So this does won't have braces,
so this will be a plant.
I think I just accidentally
created a file.
So we want a new folder called plant.
And let's create our dynamic root so
this will be plant ID.TSX.
And this one so let's export.
Do I have a nice screen
with a default layout.
I don't think I do.
Okay, let's type it out.
Export default Plant screen.
>> Kadi Kraman: Export
default function Plant screen
let's just return a view with some text.
So import view and text from React Native.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay.
I guess so for each of these plants,
we have our components
folder with the plant card.
So for the plant card,
we wanna link to the plant details page.
>> Kadi Kraman: So here,
let's convert this view into a pressable.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
let's also wrap it in a link.
So link is from Xperuta.
>> Kadi Kraman: And this href is going
to be plants slash the Plant ID.
And we'll also need as child.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so
this should already, Plants ID.
There we go.
So this is already over
opening this plant screen.
So the question is, how do we get
our plant id from the dynamic route?
So if we go to our plants
screen we can use,
we can get the params from.
Use local search params, so
if I console.log what this renders.
>> Kadi Kraman: It's gonna render four,
three, two, one.
So this is how you get
the dynamic parameter from here.
So notice that this parameter is called
the same as what I call this in the races.
So I can call this whatever I'd like.
And another thing that I
wanted to show you is,
how to dynamically add,
change this header.
So by default,
we would like this header to be undefined,
so do an empty string rather
than this dynamic root.
So in the home layout file,
let's define a stack screen and
name, so it is going to be PlantId.
And let's do options, and let's do header
it's called title actually title and
let's do an empty string.
So by default we don't render anything and
then in this plant screen we could use
a use effect
>> Kadi Kraman: So
make sure you add an empty
array to the end to begin with.
And we want to use navigation
from use navigation.
So const navigation use navigation.
And then we can do navigation set options.
So this can set the screen
options of the current screen,
so we can set the title
to be the plant name.
>> Kadi Kraman: So now by default
the plant's going to be undefined,
the plant name is going
to be an empty string.
But actually, let me just,
to make sure that we are being dynamic,
let's use the params, or is it plant ID?
>> Kadi Kraman: There you go.
So this is plant with ID four, three,
and we're incrementing numbers here.
So we're getting this correctly.
Okay, so I think that's all
the interesting things in this plant page.
So now that we've looked through those,
let's actually copy this file.
I think I did have it here somewhere.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go.
So I made this copyable because again,
I don't really want to live code this.
But I've pointed out all
the interesting things, I think.
So you can just copy the entire
contents of the file.
I've forgotten to install
my favorite library.
So for
this UI where we're formatting the date,
actually this NA is going to
be a formative timestamp.
For formatting times you could
use state functions or moment.
I think it's popular as well.
I tend to use state functions.
I think most projects will
have to deal with dimes.
I use this.
It's just a nice utility library
if we go to the documentation.
What I usually use is the format.
So this lets you format a date
however you want, and actually,
another handy thing is you can do
a format distance at a strict or to now.
So this will give you in words a distance.
So it will say about ten minutes ago and
in a strict one,
we'll say ten minutes ago.
So there's lots of panda utilities there
because working with dates is a nightmare.
So let's make sure we install this.
>> Kadi Kraman: And npx expo start.
>> Kadi Kraman: And restart, reload.
So hopefully, there we go.
So we have some plant details UI and
I should be able to water this plant.
So you can see that this is where our
timestamp comes in so we have a last water
timestamp now, and let me just refresh to
make sure that this is persisted, lovely.
So refreshed, but this is still
read from local PC storage and
I should be able to also delete it.
So I think I added a little
confirmation to delete it.
And then it navigates back,
and it's disappeared.